README.md, before:

# DZVideoPlayerViewController

[![CI Status](http://img.shields.io/travis/Denis Zamataev/DZVideoPlayerViewController.svg?style=flat)](https://travis-ci.org/Denis Zamataev/DZVideoPlayerViewController)
[![Version](https://img.shields.io/cocoapods/v/DZVideoPlayerViewController.svg?style=flat)](http://cocoapods.org/pods/DZVideoPlayerViewController)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/cocoapods/l/DZVideoPlayerViewController.svg?style=flat)](http://cocoapods.org/pods/DZVideoPlayerViewController)
[![Platform](https://img.shields.io/cocoapods/p/DZVideoPlayerViewController.svg?style=flat)](http://cocoapods.org/pods/DZVideoPlayerViewController)

##What is it

iOS Video Player control, implemented with AVPlayer.

##Screenshots

![image](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/DZamataev/DZVideoPlayerViewController/master/Screenshots/screenshot1.1.png)

![image](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/DZamataev/DZVideoPlayerViewController/master/Screenshots/screenshot2.1.png)

##About

iOS Video Player control that features
* play online or offline videos
* playback controls: play, pause, toggle fullscreen, current time and left time labels
* progress indicator that shows downloaded amount and allows the user to rewind
* remote command center support
* remote control (headset) support
* background playback
* now playing info updates
* easy customization with Interface Builder 

## Usage

This pod contains no Example project. You can find example usage of this control here at [OhMyTube github page.](https://github.com/DZamataev/OhMyTube)

Basic snippet to start with:

``` ObjC
    self.videoPlayerViewController.delegate = self;
    self.videoPlayerViewController.videoURL = [NSURL URLWithString:@"http://distilleryvesper7-3.ak.instagram.com/fdc51d8ea73611e3a15612e740d32ce3_101.mp4"];
    self.videoPlayerViewController.isBackgroundPlaybackEnabled = YES;
    [self.videoPlayerViewController prepareAndPlayAutomatically:YES];
```

Implement DZVideoPlayerViewControllerDelegate

``` ObjC
#pragma mark - <DZVideoPlayerViewControllerDelegate>

- (void)playerFailedToLoadAssetWithError:(NSError *)error {

}

- (void)playerDidPlay {
    
}

- (void)playerDidPause {
    
}

- (void)playerDidStop {
    
}

- (void)playerDidToggleFullscreen {
    if (self.videoPlayerViewController.isFullscreen) {
        // TODO: implement expand videoPlayerViewController to fullscreen
    }
    else {
        // TODO: implement shrink videoPlayerViewController from fullscreen
    }
}

- (void)playerDidPlayToEndTime {
    
}

- (void)playerFailedToPlayToEndTime {
    
}

- (void)playerPlaybackStalled {
    
}

- (void)playerGatherNowPlayingInfo:(NSMutableDictionary *)nowPlayingInfo {
//    [nowPlayingInfo setObject:self.video.author forKey:MPMediaItemPropertyArtist];
    [nowPlayingInfo setObject:self.video.title forKey:MPMediaItemPropertyTitle];
}
```

## Requirements

Version 0.2.* and above runs on iOS 8.0 and later.
Version 0.1.* - 0.2.* runs on iOS 7.0 and later.

## Customization

There are at least 3 ways to customize this control.

1. Create custom XIB and hook up the Outlets as they appear in default XIB (```DZVideoPlayerViewController.xib```). No need to hook actions, because they will be added programmatically in the ```DZVideoPlayerViewController``` class.
2. Subclass ```DZVideoPlayerViewController``` and provide your overrides for different methods.
3. Manipulate views by their public properties. Set images for ```playButton``` and ```pauseButton```, change tint color on ```progressIndicator```, hide ```fullscreenExpandButton``` and ```fullscreenShrinkButton``` if you don't want that feature.

Feel free to provide Pull Requests with custom XIBs you create. Good luck!

## Installation

DZVideoPlayerViewController is available through [CocoaPods](http://cocoapods.org). To install
it, simply add the following line to your Podfile:

```ruby
pod "DZVideoPlayerViewController"
```

## Similar Controls

* [GUIPlayerView](https://github.com/guilhermearaujo/GUIPlayerView)
* [PBJVideoPlayer](https://github.com/piemonte/PBJVideoPlayer)
* [YKMediaPlayerKit](https://github.com/YasKuraishi/YKMediaPlayerKit)
* [iOS-Video-Player](https://github.com/haikieu/iOS-Video-Player)

## Author

Denis Zamataev, denis.zamataev@gmail.com

## License

DZVideoPlayerViewController is available under the MIT license. See the LICENSE file for more info.

---------------

[![follow button](http://dzamataev.github.io/images/twitter_follow.png)](https://twitter.com/DZamataev)

[![endorse](https://api.coderwall.com/dzamataev/endorsecount.png)](https://coderwall.com/dzamataev)

Commit message:

implements fullscreen shrink and expand demo. implements configuration object for view controller. changes readme and screenshots.

README.md, after:

# DZVideoPlayerViewController

[![CI Status](http://img.shields.io/travis/Denis Zamataev/DZVideoPlayerViewController.svg?style=flat)](https://travis-ci.org/Denis Zamataev/DZVideoPlayerViewController)
[![Version](https://img.shields.io/cocoapods/v/DZVideoPlayerViewController.svg?style=flat)](http://cocoapods.org/pods/DZVideoPlayerViewController)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/cocoapods/l/DZVideoPlayerViewController.svg?style=flat)](http://cocoapods.org/pods/DZVideoPlayerViewController)
[![Platform](https://img.shields.io/cocoapods/p/DZVideoPlayerViewController.svg?style=flat)](http://cocoapods.org/pods/DZVideoPlayerViewController)

##What is it

iOS Video Player control, implemented with AVPlayer.

##Screenshots


![image](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/DZamataev/DZVideoPlayerViewController/master/Screenshots/demo1(0.3.0).gif)

![image](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/DZamataev/DZVideoPlayerViewController/master/Screenshots/screenshot1(0.3.0).png)
![image](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/DZamataev/DZVideoPlayerViewController/master/Screenshots/screenshot2(0.3.0).png)
![image](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/DZamataev/DZVideoPlayerViewController/master/Screenshots/screenshot3(0.3.0).png)

##About

iOS Video Player control that features
* play online or offline videos
* playback controls: play, pause, toggle fullscreen, current time and left time labels
* progress indicator that shows downloaded amount and allows the user to rewind
* remote command center support
* remote control (headset) support
* background playback
* now playing info updates
* easy customization with Interface Builder 
* has several styles to choose from
* default style is similiar to MPMoviePlayerViewController

## Usage

This pod contains an Example project showing how to play local file and implement fullscreen expand and shrink transitioning.


You can find more example usage of this control here at [OhMyTube github page.](https://github.com/DZamataev/OhMyTube)

Basic snippet to start with:

``` ObjC
    self.videoPlayerViewController.delegate = self;
    self.videoPlayerViewController.videoURL = [NSURL URLWithString:@"http://distilleryvesper7-3.ak.instagram.com/fdc51d8ea73611e3a15612e740d32ce3_101.mp4"];
    self.videoPlayerViewController.isBackgroundPlaybackEnabled = YES;
    [self.videoPlayerViewController prepareAndPlayAutomatically:YES];
```

Implement DZVideoPlayerViewControllerDelegate

``` ObjC
#pragma mark - <DZVideoPlayerViewControllerDelegate>

- (void)playerFailedToLoadAssetWithError:(NSError *)error {

}

- (void)playerDidPlay {
    
}

- (void)playerDidPause {
    
}

- (void)playerDidStop {
    
}

- (void)playerDidToggleFullscreen {
    if (self.videoPlayerViewController.isFullscreen) {
        // TODO: implement expand videoPlayerViewController to fullscreen
    }
    else {
        // TODO: implement shrink videoPlayerViewController from fullscreen
    }
}

- (void)playerDidPlayToEndTime {
    
}

- (void)playerFailedToPlayToEndTime {
    
}

- (void)playerPlaybackStalled {
    
}

- (void)playerGatherNowPlayingInfo:(NSMutableDictionary *)nowPlayingInfo {
//    [nowPlayingInfo setObject:self.video.author forKey:MPMediaItemPropertyArtist];
    [nowPlayingInfo setObject:self.video.title forKey:MPMediaItemPropertyTitle];
}
```

## Requirements

Version 0.2.* and above runs on iOS 8.0 and later.
Version 0.1.* runs on iOS 7.0 and later.

## Customization

There are at least 3 ways to customize this control.

1. Create custom XIB and hook up the Outlets as they appear in default XIB (```DZVideoPlayerViewController.xib```). No need to hook actions, because they will be added programmatically in the ```DZVideoPlayerViewController``` class.
2. Subclass ```DZVideoPlayerViewController``` and provide your overrides for different methods.
3. Manipulate views by their public properties. Set images for ```playButton``` and ```pauseButton```, change tint color on ```progressIndicator```, hide ```fullscreenExpandButton``` and ```fullscreenShrinkButton``` if you don't want that feature.

Feel free to provide Pull Requests with custom XIBs you create. Good luck!

## Installation

DZVideoPlayerViewController is available through [CocoaPods](http://cocoapods.org). To install
it, simply add the following line to your Podfile:

```ruby
pod "DZVideoPlayerViewController"
```

## Similar Controls

* [GUIPlayerView](https://github.com/guilhermearaujo/GUIPlayerView)
* [PBJVideoPlayer](https://github.com/piemonte/PBJVideoPlayer)
* [YKMediaPlayerKit](https://github.com/YasKuraishi/YKMediaPlayerKit)
* [iOS-Video-Player](https://github.com/haikieu/iOS-Video-Player)

## Author

Denis Zamataev, denis.zamataev@gmail.com

## License

DZVideoPlayerViewController is available under the MIT license. See the LICENSE file for more info.

---------------

[![follow button](http://dzamataev.github.io/images/twitter_follow.png)](https://twitter.com/DZamataev)

[![endorse](https://api.coderwall.com/dzamataev/endorsecount.png)](https://coderwall.com/dzamataev)
